1) Npm doen't stand for node package manager. It doesn't have a full form.

npm is the world's largest Software Registry.
The registry contains over 800,000 code packages.It's one of the biggest package manager.
Open-source developers use npm to share software.
Many organizations also use npm to manage private development.


2) package.json is a configuration for npm. It keeps a track of all the dependencies/packages our code is using.
  a) Whatever packages our project needs, we install those packages using  
     npm install <packageName>.
  b) Once package installation is complete, their versions and configuration related information is stored as 
     dependencies inside package.json file.  

3) package-lock.json: Package-lock.json locks the exact version of packages being used in the project. 


4) What is difference between package.json and package.lock.json?
   
   In package. json we have information about generic version (approx version) of installed packages whereas in package.lock.json we have
   information about the specific or exact version of installed packages.


5) Integrity in  package.lock.json-- It’s a Subresource Integrity (SRI) hash. Stores the cryptographic hash (checksum) of the tarball’s contents.
   Think of it as: “This file’s fingerprint must match exactly, otherwise reject it.”

   Tarball-A tarball is basically a squished-up bundle of files.It’s a single archive file, usually ending in .tar or .tgz.

   When we install the package, npm recalculates the hash of what you downloaded and compares it to the one in package-lock.json.
   a) If they match → the package is authentic and untampered.
   b) If they don’t match → installation fails because something fishy happened (corruption, malware, etc.).


6)  Resolved in package.lock.json-- GIves the precise location of the tarball (.tgz file) that npm downloaded when installing the package. 
                                    npm’s way of saying: "Hey, when I installed this dependency, I grabbed it from this exact URL." 


7)That line — “It was running in my local, I don’t know how it broke in production” — is basically the unofficial motto of every developer ever. 
    
    Your package-lock.json stores the exact tarball URL (resolved) and its fingerprint (integrity).
    When production runs npm install, npm doesn’t just say “give me version 1.2.3.” It says:
    a) “Give me version 1.2.3 from this exact URL…”
    b) “…and its content must match this SHA512 hash.”
    c) If the tarball doesn’t match the fingerprint → install fails immediately.
    That means production gets the exact same code you tested locally. 


7) There are two types of dependecies that our app can have.
   a)dev dependecy- It is gen erally required in development phase.  
   b)normal dependecy- It is used in production also.
   npm install -D parcel-- is used to install parcel as dev dependency.

8) "parcel": "^2.16.0" --  ( ^ automatically update its version if there is a minor upgrade.)
    What's the difference between tilde(~) and caret(^) in package.json?

    Caret ( ^ )-Means: Install the latest minor or patch version, but don’t touch the major version.
    It’s like saying: “I trust small updates won’t break things, but a new major release might burn my house down.”

    Tilde ( ~ )- Means: Install the latest patch version, but keep the minor version locked.
    It’s like saying: “I don’t even trust minor updates. Just fix the typos and bugs, nothing fancy.”
    
    When we have a major upgrade a lot of this will break into our app, so it is always safe to use ^.

    So the rule of thumb:
    a) If you’re building an app/project → use ^ (you want to stay reasonably up to date).
    b) If you’re building a library/package for others → use ~ or even exact versions 
       (you don’t want your users’ projects breaking because you let a “harmless” update sneak in).

  9) node_modules: Which gets installed is like a database for the npm. 
                   A directory where npm (or yarn, pnpm, etc.) dumps all the installed dependencies your project needs.
                   Each library you install (react, express, lodash, etc.) gets its own folder inside node_modules.
                   Dependencies of dependencies also live in there (Transitive dependency), which is why it grows into a black hole on your disk.

                   Every dependency in node_module will have its package.json.

                   When you run import React from 'react', Node.js looks inside node_modules to find the actual code.     
                   
                   Node modules are very heavy so we should always put this in git ignore because if we have our package.json and package.lock.json, we can recreate node_modules.
                   (#Whatever we can regenerate don't put it on git)

10) How would npm know how many dependencies does parcel has and what dependencies does parcel has? 
    In the whole package how many package.json we have and how many package.lock.json do we have?

    1. How npm knows Parcel’s dependencies:
    a) In parcel’s case, its package.json lists all the packages it directly depends on under "dependencies".
    b) npm reads that file, downloads those dependencies, then repeats the process for each of those dependencies (and their dependencies, and so on).
       This is known as transitive dependecies.
   
    2. How many package.json files exist?

    a) One in your project root → this is your project’s own package.json, where you declare direct dependencies.
    b) One inside every installed dependency → each library in node_modules has its own package.json

    3. How many package-lock.json files exist?
    
    Normally, just one at your project root. package-lock.json is generated only for the main project you’re working on, not for every dependency.

11) * To ignite our app: npx parcel index.html
      npx means ‘execute the package using npm’
      index.html is the entry point    


12) CDN links is not a preffered way to bring React and React-DOM into our project. Why?
     
   1) Fetching from CDN is a costly operation. It is fetching from a url. But if we already have react in our node modules, how easy it would be to execute our code.
        So, we don't want to make another network call to get react.
   2) "https://unpkg.com/react@18/umd/react.development.js". Now here it is mentioned, react-18, tomorrow if another version of react comes, we'll have to keep changing our url.
      So, its easier to have it in our package.json. It'll be easier to manage all the dependencies.


13) import React from "react";--- here we are importing React from "react" in our node_modules


14) Parcel
     a) Dev Build--- When you’re writing code, you don’t need super-optimized files. Parcel generates a development build that prioritizes speed over optimization. Think of it like rough drafts of your essay—you just need it quick to check if the ideas make sense. 
                     Production builds are polished and optimized; dev builds are fast and messy but useful.

     b) Local Server-- Parcel spins up a local server for you, so you can preview your project instantly in the browser.

     c) HMR = Hot Module Replacement-As you make changes to your code, Parcel automatically rebuilds the changed files and updates your app in the browser. 
              By default, Parcel fully reloads the page, but in some cases it may perform Hot Module Replacement (HMR).
              HMR improves the development experience by updating modules in the browser at runtime without needing a whole page refresh. 
              This means that application state can be retained as you change small things in your code.
              Example: you tweak your CSS, the styles update instantly on-screen without losing your React component’s state. Saves insane amounts of time.
    
     d) File Watching Algorithm - To support an optimal caching and development experience Parcel utilizes a very fast watcher written in C++ that integrates with low-level file watching functionality of each operating system. Using this watcher Parcel watches every file in your project root (including all node_modules). 
                                  Based on events and metadata from these files, Parcel determines which files need to be rebuilt.
       
     e) Caching - Faster Builds-- Parcel caches everything it builds to disk(.parcel-cache). If you restart the dev server, Parcel will only rebuild files that have changed since the last time it ran. 
                                  Parcel automatically tracks all of the files, configuration, plugins, and dev dependencies that are involved in your build, and granularly invalidates the cache when something changes.
                                  This makes incremental builds lightning fast compared to first-time builds.

     f) Image Optimization-- Parcel also includes lossless image optimization for JPEGs and PNGs by default in production mode, which reduces the size of images without affecting their quality.
                             Optimized images = faster page loads.

     g) Minification--- In production mode, Parcel automatically minifies your code to reduce the file sizes of your bundles. 
                        Smaller files = faster downloads.

     h) Bundling-- Parcel collects all assets (JS, CSS, images, fonts, etc.) and bundles them into fewer files. Instead of the browser fetching 50 small files, it gets a handful of big ones. 
                   This reduces HTTP requests and improves load performance.

     i) Compression -- Parcel applies compression algorithms like gzip or brotli to shrink bundled files further before sending them to the browser. 
                    For instance, a 500KB JS file might shrink to ~150KB over the network. That’s free speed for your users.
     
    
     j) Consistent Hashing-- Parcel adds unique hashes to filenames (like main.4f3d2.js). If the file changes, the hash changes. Browsers then know it’s a new file and won’t use the cached old one. 
                             This avoids the classic “I fixed the bug but users still see the old version” headache.

     k) Code Splitting--Instead of making one giant bundle, Parcel splits the code intelligently. Example: the homepage loads minimal JS, and extra chunks (like about.js or dashboard.js) 
                        load only when the user visits those pages. Reduces initial load time and improves UX.

     l) Differential Bundling - Differential bundling is the idea of shipping multiple versions of your code for different targets, and allowing the browser to choose the most optimal one to download.
                                Modern browsers support <script type="module">, which in addition to supporting import and export syntax, also supports other modern syntax such as classes, arrow functions, async/await, and more.
                                Modern browsers can handle ES6+ (ECMAScript 2015 (aka ES6) and everything that came after it.), but older ones (like IE11) choke. Parcel automatically generates two bundles: one with modern syntax (for Chrome, Edge, etc.) and one transpiled (for old browsers). 
                                It then serves the right version based on the browser. Saves you from manually maintaining compatibility.

     m) Diagnostic-- Parcel’s error messages are actually helpful. Instead of dumping a 200-line stack trace, 
                     it highlights the error with context, line number, and possible fixes.

     n) Error Handling--When something breaks, Parcel shows a clear overlay in your browser and logs details in the terminal. 
                        It doesn’t just crash and leave you guessing. This makes debugging much smoother.

     o) HTTPs--  Parcel can serve your app locally with HTTPS. Useful if you’re testing features like service workers, payment gateways, or APIs that demand secure connections. 
                 No fiddling with self-signed certificates manually.

     p) Tree Shaking (remove unused code)-- Parcel analyzes imports and eliminates dead code.  
                                               Result: smaller bundles and faster load times.
 
     q) Different dev and production bundles-- a) Dev bundles: fast, not optimized, with HMR and source maps for debugging.
                                               b) Prod bundles: heavily optimized, minified, tree-shaken, compressed, differential, and cache-busted.
                                               This separation ensures you get fast feedback during dev, and efficient performance in production.


15)* dist: It keeps the files minified for us. When bundler builds the app, the build goes into a folder called dist.
            The `/dist` folder contains the minimized and optimised version the source code.
            Along with the minified code, the /dist folder also comprises of all the compiled modules that may or may not be used with other systems.
            a) When we run command:
               npx parcel index.html
               This will create a faster development version of our project and serves it on the server.
            
            b) When we tell parcel to make a production build:
               npx parcel build index.html 
               It creates a lot of things, minify your file. And the parcel will build all the production files to the dist folder. 

16) Transitive Dependencies :We have our package manager which takes care of our transitive dependencies of our code.
                            If we’ve to build a production ready app which uses all optimisations (like minify, bundling, compression, etc), 
                            we need to do all these.
                            But we can’t do this alone, we need some dependencies on it. Those dependencies are also dependent on other dependencies.

17) * Browserslist: Browserslist is a tool that specifies which browsers should be supported/compatible in your frontend app.
                    It makes our code compatible for a lot of browsers.  

                    In package.json file do: "browserlist": ["last 2 versions"]                          

